week 5 

KPI(Key Performance Indicator
-Summarize complex data into a single insight
-Used in dashboards widely
-Are numeric values


Types of data with respect to PowerBI

1.Categorical data - Can't perform mathematical opertions
                   - For identification,grouping,comparing

2.Numerical data  - Can perform mathematical opertions
                  - For measure,averages,percentage,trends

3.Time based data - Data recorded over time
                  - shows growth,decline

"TYPE OF THE DATA DECIDES THE TYPE OF CHARTS TO USE"

Bar chart:Are used to compare categories.

Pie chart:Shows the proportion of a whole.
          All slices together equals 100%.
          Best to used only with 5-6 categories.

Cards: In PowerBI displays a single value clearly.

Line chart:Ideal for time based data.
           They show increase,decrease over time.
           Identify pattern,seasonality etc,

Card is a KPI:
- one key number
- that number represent performance
- easy to understand at a glance


Data Modeling: The process of organizing tables and defining relationships between them.

Fact table: It contains data that is used for analysis.
            It usually contains foreign keys that connect to dimension table.
            They are generally large and grow overtime.

Dimension table:It contains information that provide context to the fact table.
                They are usually smaller than fact tables.

Primary key: Is a column with unique and non null values that uniquely identifies each row in a table.

Foreign key: Is a column that reference the primary key of the another table to create relationships.

Star Schema: It is the most recommended data modeling structure in PowerBI.
             It consists of one central fact table connected to multiple dimension table.
             The structure is simple,easy to understand.

One to Many: One records in one table is connected to many records in another table.
Many to One: Many records in one table is connected to one record in another table.
Many to Many: Many records in one table is connected to many record in another table.
One to One: One records in one table is connected to one record in another table.

